# Code analysis
## Proyecto emprende-conecta 
#### Branch main
#### Version Original 

**By: Administrator**

*Date: 2024-10-03*

## Introduction
This document contains results of the code analysis of emprende-conecta



## Configuration

- Quality Profiles
    - Names: Sonar way [CSS]; Sonar way [JavaScript]; Sonar way [Python]; Sonar way [TypeScript]; Sonar way [HTML]; 
    - Files: f40a2f9d-8112-4bc6-80c8-8c9447af2aa1.json; af4bd1d1-4463-47fc-9c4c-5063c2da400f.json; d133e03b-a789-4915-87d8-ac350697c26e.json; b6bbdcc6-8d45-447d-8432-c91241de0983.json; de4f139c-38f5-425a-bb21-e24f5c2e1188.json; 


 - Quality Gate
    - Name: Sonar way
    - File: Sonar way.xml

## Synthesis

### Analysis Status

Reliability | Security | Security Review | Maintainability |
:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:
C | E | E | A |

### Quality gate status

| Quality Gate Status | OK |
|-|-|



### Metrics

Coverage | Duplications | Comment density | Median number of lines of code per file | Adherence to coding standard |
:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:
0.0 % | 0.0 % | 2.1 % | 29.0 | 98.9 %

### Tests

Total | Success Rate | Skipped | Errors | Failures |
:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:
0 | 0 % | 0 | 0 | 0

### Detailed technical debt

Reliability|Security|Maintainability|Total
---|---|---|---
0d 1h 20min|0d 0h 30min|1d 2h 23min|1d 4h 13min


### Metrics Range

\ | Cyclomatic Complexity | Cognitive Complexity | Lines of code per file | Coverage | Comment density (%) | Duplication (%)
:---|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:
Min | 0.0 | 0.0 | 0.0 | 0.0 | 0.0 | 0.0
Max | 305.0 | 29.0 | 4290.0 | 0.0 | 66.7 | 0.0

### Volume

Language|Number
---|---
CSS|20
JavaScript|60
Python|397
TypeScript|4197
HTML|13
Total|4687


## Issues

### Issues count by severity and types

Type / Severity|INFO|MINOR|MAJOR|CRITICAL|BLOCKER
---|---|---|---|---|---
BUG|0|15|1|0|0
VULNERABILITY|0|0|0|0|1
CODE_SMELL|0|42|85|2|0


### Issues List

Name|Description|Type|Severity|Number
---|---|---|---|---
Binary expressions should not always return the same value|Comparisons that always evaluate to true or to false, logical expressions that either always or never short-circuit and comparisons to a newly <br /> constructed object should not be used. <br /> Why is this an issue? <br /> An expression that always produces the same result, regardless of the inputs, is unnecessary and likely indicates a programmer’s error. This can <br /> come from <br />  <br />    confusing operator precedence  <br />    expecting strict equality between different types  <br />    expecting objects to be compared by value  <br />    expecting empty objects to be false or null  <br />    mistyping &gt;= for ⇒  <br />  <br /> This can also happen when you put an assignment in a logical sub-expression. While not strictly a bug, this practice is confusing and should be <br /> avoided. <br /> How to fix it <br /> Review the code around the issue to find out why the expression always produces the same result. Pay attention to the operator precedence, <br /> comparing objects of different types, and comparing objects by reference (not by value!). <br /> Code examples <br /> Noncompliant code example <br />  <br /> !foo == null; <br /> a + b ?? c; <br /> x === []; <br /> (foo=0) &amp;&amp; bar; <br />  <br /> Compliant solution <br />  <br /> foo != null; <br /> a + (b ?? c); <br /> x.length === 0; <br /> |BUG|MAJOR|1
Mouse events should have corresponding keyboard events|Why is this an issue? <br /> Offering the same experience with the mouse and the keyboard allow users to pick their preferred devices. <br /> Additionally, users of assistive technology will also be able to browse the site even if they cannot use the mouse. <br /> This rules detects the following issues: <br />  <br />    when onClick is not accompanied by at least one of the following: onKeyUp, onKeyDown, <br />   onKeyPress.  <br />    when onmouseover/onmouseout are not paired by onfocus/onblur.  <br />  <br /> How to fix it in JSX <br /> Add at least one of the following event handlers onKeyUp, onKeyDown, onKeyPress to the element when using <br /> onClick event handler. Add corresponding event handlers onfocus/onblur to the element when using <br /> onmouseover/onmouseout event handlers. <br /> Code examples <br /> Noncompliant code example <br />  <br /> &lt;div onClick={() =&gt; {}} /&gt; <br />  <br /> &lt;div onMouseOver={ () =&gt; {}} }  /&gt; <br />  <br /> Compliant solution <br />  <br /> &lt;div onClick={() =&gt; {}} onKeyDown={this.handleKeyDown} /&gt; <br />  <br /> &lt;div onMouseOver={ () =&gt; {} } onFocus={ () =&gt; {} } /&gt; <br />  <br /> Exceptions <br /> This does not apply for interactive or hidden elements, eg. when using aria-hidden="true" attribute. <br /> Resources <br />  <br />    SCR2 - Using redundant keyboard and mouse event handlers  <br />    G90 - Providing keyboard-triggered event handlers  <br /> |BUG|MINOR|15
Functions should not be nested too deeply|Why is this an issue? <br /> Nested functions refer to the practice of defining a function within another function. These inner functions have access to the variables and <br /> parameters of the outer function, creating a closure. <br /> While nesting functions is a common practice in JavaScript, deeply nested functions can make the code harder to read and understand, especially if <br /> the functions are long or if there are many levels of nesting. <br /> This can make it difficult for other developers or even yourself to understand and maintain the code. <br /> Noncompliant code example <br /> With the default threshold of 4 levels: <br />  <br /> function f() { <br />   function f_inner() { <br />     function f_inner_inner() { <br />       function f_inner_inner_inner() { <br />         function f_inner_inner_inner_inner() { // Noncompliant <br />         } <br />       } <br />     } <br />   } <br /> } <br />  <br /> Resources <br /> Documentation <br />  <br />    MDN web docs - Nested functions <br />   and closures  <br /> |CODE_SMELL|CRITICAL|2
CSS files should not be empty|Why is this an issue? <br /> This rule raises an issue when a CSS file is empty (ie: containing only spaces).|CODE_SMELL|MAJOR|1
'null=True' should not be used on string-based fields in Django models|This rule suggests avoiding the use of "null=True" on string-based fields such as CharField and TextField in Django models. Instead, it recommends <br /> using blank=True, which allows an empty string as a valid value while still maintaining the ability to query and filter on the field. <br /> Why is this an issue? <br /> Using "null=True" on string-based fields can lead to inconsistent and unexpected behavior. In Django, "null=True" allows the field to have a NULL <br /> value in the database. However, the Django convention to represent the absence of data for a string is an empty string. Having two ways to represent <br /> the absence of data can cause problems when querying and filtering on the field. For example, if a CharField with "null=True" has a value of NULL in <br /> the database, querying for an empty string will not return that object. <br /> How to fix it <br /> Instead of using "null=True", use "blank=True" on string-based fields such as CharField and TextField. This allows an empty string as a valid value <br /> while still maintaining the ability to query and filter on the field. If a field should not be left empty, specify a default value using the default <br /> argument. <br /> Code examples <br /> Noncompliant code example <br />  <br /> class ExampleModel(models.Model): <br />     name = models.CharField(max_length=50, null=True) <br />  <br /> Compliant solution <br />  <br /> class ExampleModel(models.Model): <br />     name = models.CharField(max_length=50, blank=True) <br />  <br /> Exceptions <br /> If unique=True and blank=True are both set, null=True is required to avoid unique constraint violations when <br /> saving multiple objects with blank values. No issue will be raised in this scenario. <br /> Resources <br /> Documentation <br /> Django model field reference|CODE_SMELL|MAJOR|11
Sections of code should not be commented out|Why is this an issue? <br /> Commented-out code distracts the focus from the actual executed code. It creates a noise that increases maintenance code. And because it is never <br /> executed, it quickly becomes out of date and invalid. <br /> Commented-out code should be deleted and can be retrieved from source control history if required.|CODE_SMELL|MAJOR|1
JSX list components should have a key property|Why is this an issue? <br /> To optimize the rendering of React list components, a unique identifier (UID) is required for each list item. This UID lets React identify the item <br /> throughout its lifetime. To provide it, use the key attribute of the list item. When the key attribute is missing, React <br /> will default to using the item’s index inside the list component. If the element ordering changes, it will cause keys to not match up between renders, <br /> recreating the DOM. It can negatively impact performance and may cause issues with the component state. <br />  <br /> function Blog(props) { <br />   return ( <br />     &lt;ul&gt; <br />       {props.posts.map((post) =&gt; <br />         &lt;li&gt; &lt;!-- Noncompliant: When 'posts' are reordered, React will need to recreate the list DOM --&gt; <br />           {post.title} <br />         &lt;/li&gt; <br />       )} <br />     &lt;/ul&gt; <br />   ); <br /> } <br />  <br /> To fix it, use a string or a number that uniquely identifies the list item. The key must be unique among its siblings, not globally. <br /> If the data comes from a database, database IDs are already unique and are the best option. Otherwise, use a counter or a UUID generator. <br /> Avoid using array indexes since, even if they are unique, the order of the elements may change. <br />  <br /> function Blog(props) { <br />   return ( <br />     &lt;ul&gt; <br />       {props.posts.map((post) =&gt; <br />         &lt;li key={post.id}&gt; &lt;!-- Compliant: id will always be the same even if 'posts' order changes --&gt; <br />           {post.title} <br />         &lt;/li&gt; <br />       )} <br />     &lt;/ul&gt; <br />   ); <br /> } <br />  <br /> Resources <br /> Documentation <br />  <br />    React Documentation - Rendering lists  <br />    React Documentation - Recursing On Children  <br />    MDN web docs - Crypto: randomUUID() method  <br />    Wikipedia - UUID  <br />  <br /> Related rules <br />  <br />    S6479 - JSX list components should not use array indexes as key  <br />    S6486 - JSX list components keys should match up between renders  <br /> |CODE_SMELL|MAJOR|1
JSX list components should not use array indexes as key|Why is this an issue? <br /> To optimize the rendering of React list components, a unique identifier (UID) is required for each list item. This UID lets React identify the item <br /> throughout its lifetime. Avoid array indexes since the order of the items may change, which will cause keys to not match up between renders, <br /> recreating the DOM. It can negatively impact performance and may cause issues with the component state. <br />  <br /> function Blog(props) { <br />   return ( <br />     &lt;ul&gt; <br />       {props.posts.map((post, index) =&gt; <br />         &lt;li key={index}&gt; &lt;!-- Noncompliant: When 'posts' are reordered, React will need to recreate the list DOM --&gt; <br />           {post.title} <br />         &lt;/li&gt; <br />       )} <br />     &lt;/ul&gt; <br />   ); <br /> } <br />  <br /> To fix it, use a string or a number that uniquely identifies the list item. The key must be unique among its siblings, not globally. <br /> If the data comes from a database, database IDs are already unique and are the best option. Otherwise, use a counter or a UUID generator. <br />  <br /> function Blog(props) { <br />   return ( <br />     &lt;ul&gt; <br />       {props.posts.map((post) =&gt; <br />         &lt;li key={post.id}&gt; <br />           {post.title} <br />         &lt;/li&gt; <br />       )} <br />     &lt;/ul&gt; <br />   ); <br /> } <br />  <br /> Resources <br /> Documentation <br />  <br />    React Documentation - Rendering lists  <br />    React Documentation - Recursing On Children  <br />    MDN web docs - Crypto: randomUUID() method  <br />    Wikipedia - UUID  <br />  <br /> Related rules <br />  <br />    S6477 - JSX list components should have a key property  <br />    S6486 - JSX list components keys should match up between renders  <br /> |CODE_SMELL|MAJOR|18
React Context Provider values should have stable identities|Why is this an issue? <br /> Whenever the value property of React context changes, React will rerender the context and all its child nodes and consumers. In <br /> JavaScript, things like object literals or function expressions will create a new identity every time they are evaluated. Such constructions should <br /> not be directly used as context value because React will always consider they have changed. This can significantly impact <br /> performance. <br />  <br /> function Component() { <br />   return ( <br />     &lt;SomeContext.Provider value={{foo: 'bar'}}&gt; { /* Noncompliant: value is an object literal */ } <br />       &lt;SomeComponent /&gt; <br />     &lt;/SomeContext.Provider&gt; <br />   ); <br /> } <br />  <br /> To avoid additional rerenders wrap the value in a useMemo hook. Use the useCallback() hook if the value is a <br /> function. <br />  <br /> function Component() { <br />   const obj = useMemo(() =&gt; ({foo: 'bar'}), []); // value is cached by useMemo <br />   return ( <br />     &lt;SomeContext.Provider value={obj}&gt; { /* Compliant */ } <br />       &lt;SomeComponent /&gt; <br />     &lt;/SomeContext.Provider&gt; <br />   ); <br /> } <br />  <br /> Resources <br /> Documentation <br />  <br />    React Documentation - Context Caveats  <br />    React Documentation - Passing Data Deeply with Context  <br />    React Documentation - useCallback hook  <br />    React Documentation - useMemo hook  <br /> |CODE_SMELL|MAJOR|1
JSX elements should not use unknown properties and attributes|Why is this an issue? <br /> React components often render HTML elements, and developers can pass various props (properties) to these elements. However, React has its own set <br /> of supported properties and attributes, and it’s essential to avoid using unknown or invalid properties when working with such elements to prevent <br /> unexpected behavior at runtime. <br /> The rule reports any instances where you are using a property or attribute that is not recognized by React or the HTML element you are <br /> rendering. <br /> How to fix it <br /> Replace any unknown property or attribute with a known one, or add it to the list of exceptions. <br /> Code examples <br /> Noncompliant code example <br />  <br /> class Welcome extends React.Component { <br />   render() { <br />     return &lt;div class="hello"&gt;Hello, World!&lt;/div&gt;; // Noncompliant: 'class' is a reserved keyword in JavaScript <br />   } <br /> } <br />  <br /> Compliant solution <br />  <br /> class Welcome extends React.Component { <br />   render() { <br />     return &lt;div className="hello"&gt;Hello, World!&lt;/div&gt;; <br />   } <br /> } <br />  <br /> Noncompliant code example <br />  <br /> const Image = &lt;img source={myImage} /&gt;; // Noncompliant: The 'img' tag does not recognize any 'source' attribute <br />  <br /> Compliant solution <br />  <br /> const Image = &lt;img src={myImage} /&gt;; <br />  <br /> Resources <br /> Documentation <br />  <br />    MDN web docs - HTML attribute reference  <br />    MDN web docs - HTML global attributes  <br />    MDN web docs - SVG attribute reference  <br />    MDN web docs - ARIA states and properties  <br />    MDN web docs - data-*  <br />    React Documentation - Standard DOM props  <br /> |CODE_SMELL|MAJOR|10
Redundant React fragments should be removed|Why is this an issue? <br /> React fragments are a feature in React that allows you to group multiple elements together without adding an extra DOM element. They are a way to <br /> return multiple elements from a component’s render method without requiring a wrapping parent element. <br /> However, a fragment is redundant if it contains only one child, or if it is the child of an HTML element. <br />  <br /> &lt;&gt;&lt;Foo /&gt;&lt;/&gt;;    // Noncompliant: The fragment has only one child <br /> &lt;p&gt;&lt;&gt;foo&lt;/&gt;&lt;/p&gt;; // Noncompliant: The fragment is the child of the HTML element 'p' <br />  <br /> You can safely remove the redundant fragment while preserving the original behaviour. <br />  <br /> &lt;Foo /&gt;; <br /> &lt;p&gt;foo&lt;/p&gt;; <br />  <br /> Resources <br /> Documentation <br />  <br />    React Documentation - Fragments  <br /> |CODE_SMELL|MAJOR|7
JSX special characters should be escaped|Why is this an issue? <br /> If JSX special characters (&gt;, }) appear unescaped in the element body, this may be either because you simply forgot to <br /> escape them or because there is a problem with the JSX tag or expression (for example, misplaced or duplicate closing &gt; or <br /> } brackets). <br />  <br /> &lt;MyComponent <br />   name="abc" <br />   foo="bar"&gt; <br />   x="y"&gt; {/* Noncompliant: closing &gt; should only be on this line */} <br />   Body Text <br /> &lt;/MyComponent&gt; <br />  <br /> To fix the issue, check the structure of your JSX tag or expression - are the closing brackets correct and in the right place? If the special <br /> character is there on purpose - you need to change it to the appropriate HTML entity. <br />  <br />    replace &gt; with &amp;gt;  <br />    replace } with &amp;#125;  <br />  <br />  <br /> &lt;MyComponent <br />   name="abc" <br />   foo="bar" <br />   x="y"&gt; <br />   Body Text <br /> &lt;/MyComponent&gt; <br />  <br /> The characters &lt; and { should also be escaped, but they are not checked by this rule because it is a syntax error to <br /> include those tokens inside of a tag. <br /> Resources <br /> Documentation <br />  <br />    React Documentation - Writing markup with JSX  <br />    MDN web docs - Entity codes  <br /> |CODE_SMELL|MAJOR|1
Prefer tag over ARIA role|Why is this an issue? <br /> ARIA (Accessible Rich Internet Applications) roles are used to make web content and web applications more accessible to people with disabilities. <br /> However, you should not use an ARIA role on a generic element (like span or div) if there is a semantic HTML tag with <br /> similar functionality, just use that tag instead. <br /> For example, instead of using a div element with a button role (&lt;div role="button"&gt;Click me&lt;/div&gt;), you should just use a <br /> button element (&lt;button&gt;Click me&lt;/button&gt;). <br /> Semantic HTML tags are generally preferred over ARIA roles for accessibility due to their built-in functionality, universal support by browsers and <br /> assistive technologies, simplicity, and maintainability. They come with inherent behaviors and keyboard interactions, reducing the need for additional <br /> JavaScript. Semantic HTML also enhances SEO by helping search engines better understand the content and structure of web pages. While ARIA roles are <br /> useful, they should be considered a last resort when no suitable HTML element can provide the required behavior or semantics. <br />  <br /> &lt;div role="button" onClick={handleClick} /* Noncompliant */&gt;Click me&lt;/div&gt; <br />  <br /> Replace the ARIA role with an appropriate HTML tag. <br />  <br /> &lt;button onClick={handleClick}&gt;Click me&lt;/button&gt; <br />  <br /> Resources <br /> Documentation <br />  <br />    MDN web docs - Using ARIA: Roles, states, and <br />   properties  <br />    MDN web docs - ARIA roles (Reference)  <br />  <br /> Standards <br />  <br />    W3C - Accessible Rich Internet Applications (WAI-ARIA) 1.2  <br /> |CODE_SMELL|MAJOR|2
Anchor tags should not be used as buttons|The &lt;a&gt; tag in HTML is designed to create hyperlinks, which can link to different sections of the same page, different pages, or <br /> even different websites. However, sometimes developers misuse &lt;a&gt; tags as buttons, which can lead to accessibility issues and <br /> unexpected behavior. <br /> This rule checks that &lt;a&gt; tags are used correctly as hyperlinks and not misused as buttons. It verifies that each <br /> &lt;a&gt; tag has a href attribute, which is necessary for it to function as a hyperlink. If an &lt;a&gt; tag <br /> is used without a href attribute, it behaves like a button, which is not its intended use. <br /> Using the correct HTML elements for their intended purpose is crucial for accessibility and usability. It ensures that the website behaves as <br /> expected and can be used by all users, including those using assistive technologies. Misusing HTML elements can lead to a poor user experience and <br /> potential accessibility violations. <br /> Compliance with this rule will ensure that your HTML code is semantically correct, accessible, and behaves as expected. <br /> Why is this an issue? <br /> Misusing &lt;a&gt; tags as buttons can lead to several issues: <br />  <br />    Accessibility: Screen readers and other assistive technologies rely on the correct use of HTML elements to interpret and interact with the <br />   content. When &lt;a&gt; tags are used as buttons, it can confuse these technologies and make the website less accessible to users with <br />   disabilities.  <br />    Usability: The behavior of &lt;a&gt; tags and buttons is different. For example, buttons can be triggered using the space bar, <br />   while &lt;a&gt; tags cannot. Misusing these elements can lead to unexpected behavior and a poor user experience.  <br />    Semantic correctness: Each HTML element has a specific purpose and meaning. Using elements for purposes other than their intended use can make <br />   the code harder to understand and maintain.  <br />    SEO implications: Search engines use the structure and semantics of HTML to understand and rank web pages. Misusing HTML elements can <br />   negatively impact a website’s SEO.  <br />  <br /> How to fix it <br /> To fix this issue, you should use the appropriate HTML elements for their intended purposes. If you need to create a hyperlink, use the <br /> &lt;a&gt; tag with a href attribute. If you need to create a button, use the &lt;button&gt; tag. <br /> Code examples <br /> Noncompliant code example <br />  <br /> const MyComponent = () =&gt; { <br />     return &lt;&gt; <br />         &lt;a href="javascript:void(0)" onClick={foo}&gt;Perform action&lt;/a&gt; <br />         &lt;a href="#" onClick={foo}&gt;Perform action&lt;/a&gt; <br />         &lt;a onClick={foo}&gt;Perform action&lt;/a&gt; <br />     &lt;/&gt;; <br /> }; <br />  <br /> Compliant solution <br />  <br /> const MyComponent = () =&gt; { <br />     return &lt;&gt; <br />       &lt;button onClick={foo}&gt;Perform action&lt;/button&gt; <br />       &lt;a href="#section" onClick={foo}&gt;Perform action&lt;/a&gt; <br />     &lt;/&gt;; <br /> }; <br />  <br /> Resources <br /> Documentation <br />  <br />    WebAIM - Introduction to Links and Hypertext  <br />    Links vs. Buttons in Modern Web Applications  <br />    Using ARIA - Notes on ARIA use in HTML  <br /> |CODE_SMELL|MAJOR|32
Image, area, button with image and object elements should have an alternative text|Why is this an issue? <br /> The alt, aria-label and aria-labelledby attributes provide a textual alternative to an image. <br /> It is used whenever the actual image cannot be rendered. <br /> Common reasons for that include: <br />  <br />    The image can no longer be found  <br />    Visually impaired users using a screen reader software  <br />    Image loading is disabled, to reduce data consumption on mobile phones  <br />  <br /> It is also very important not to set an alternative text attribute to a non-informative value. For example, &lt;img ... alt="logo"&gt; <br /> is useless as it doesn’t give any information to the user. In this case, as for any other decorative image, it is better to use a CSS background image <br /> instead of an &lt;img&gt; tag. If using CSS background-image is not possible, an empty alt="" is tolerated. See <br /> Exceptions below. <br /> This rule raises an issue when: <br />  <br />    An &lt;img&gt; element has no alt attribute.  <br />    An &lt;input type="image"&gt; element has no alt, aria-label or aria-labelledby attribute <br />   or they hold an empty string.  <br />    An &lt;area&gt; element within an image map has no alt, aria-label or aria-labelledby <br />   attribute.  <br />    An &lt;object&gt; element has no inner text, title, aria-label or aria-labelledby <br />   attribute.  <br />  <br /> Exceptions <br /> &lt;img&gt; elements with an empty string&nbsp;alt="" attribute won’t raise any issue. However, this way should be used <br /> in two cases only: <br /> When the image is decorative and it is not possible to use a CSS background image. For example, when the decorative &lt;img&gt; is <br /> generated via javascript with a source image coming from a database, it is better to use an &lt;img alt=""&gt; tag rather than generate <br /> CSS code. <br />  <br /> &lt;li *ngFor="let image of images"&gt; <br />     &lt;img [src]="image" alt=""&gt; <br /> &lt;/li&gt; <br />  <br /> When the image is not decorative but its alt text would repeat a nearby text. For example, images contained in links should not <br /> duplicate the link’s text in their alt attribute, as it would make the screen reader repeat the text twice. <br />  <br /> &lt;a href="flowers.html"&gt; <br />     &lt;img src="tulip.gif" alt="" /&gt; <br />     A blooming tulip <br /> &lt;/a&gt; <br />  <br /> In all other cases you should use CSS background images. <br /> How to fix it <br /> Add an alternative text to the HTML element. <br /> Code examples <br /> Noncompliant code example <br />  <br /> &lt;img src="foo.png" /&gt; &lt;!-- missing `alt` attribute --&gt; <br /> &lt;input type="image" src="bar.png" /&gt; &lt;!-- missing alternative text attribute --&gt; <br /> &lt;input type="image" src="bar.png" alt="" /&gt; &lt;!-- empty alternative text attribute on &lt;input&gt; --&gt; <br />  <br /> &lt;img src="house.gif" usemap="#map1" <br />     alt="rooms of the house." /&gt; <br /> &lt;map id="map1" name="map1"&gt; <br />   &lt;area shape="rect" coords="0,0,42,42" <br />     href="bedroom.html"/&gt; &lt;!-- missing alternative text attribute on &lt;area&gt; --&gt; <br />   &lt;area shape="rect" coords="0,0,21,21" <br />     href="lounge.html" alt=""/&gt; &lt;!-- empty `alt` attribute on &lt;area&gt; --&gt; <br /> &lt;/map&gt; <br />  <br /> &lt;object {...props} /&gt;  &lt;!-- missing alternative text attribute on &lt;area&gt; --&gt; <br />  <br /> Compliant solution <br />  <br /> &lt;img src="foo.png" alt="Some textual description of foo.png" /&gt; <br /> &lt;input type="image" src="bar.png" aria-labelledby="Textual description of bar.png" /&gt; <br />  <br /> &lt;img src="house.gif" usemap="#map1" <br />     alt="rooms of the house." /&gt; <br /> &lt;map id="map1" name="map1"&gt; <br />   &lt;area shape="rect" coords="0,0,42,42" <br />     href="bedroom.html" alt="Bedroom" /&gt; <br />   &lt;area shape="rect" coords="0,0,21,21" <br />     href="lounge.html" aria-label="Lounge"/&gt; <br /> &lt;/map&gt; <br />  <br /> &lt;object&gt;My welcoming Bar&lt;/object&gt; <br />  <br /> Resources <br /> Documentation <br />  <br />    W3C - W3C WAI&nbsp;Web Accessibility Tutorials  <br />    W3C - Providing text alternatives for the area elements of image maps  <br />    W3C - Using alt attributes on images used as submit buttons  <br />    W3C - Using alt attributes on img elements  <br />    W3C - Using null alt text and no title attribute on img elements for images that AT <br />   should ignore  <br />    W3C - Combining adjacent image and text links for the same resource  <br />    W3C - Non-text Content  <br />    W3C - Link Purpose (In Context)  <br />    W3C - Link Purpose (Link Only)  <br /> |CODE_SMELL|MINOR|9
Unnecessary imports should be removed|Why is this an issue? <br /> Unnecessary imports refer to importing modules, libraries, or dependencies that are not used or referenced anywhere in the code. These imports do <br /> not contribute to the functionality of the application and only add extra weight to the JavaScript bundle, leading to potential performance and <br /> maintainability issues. <br />  <br /> import A from 'a'; // Noncompliant: The imported symbol 'A' isn't used <br /> import { B1 } from 'b'; <br />  <br /> console.log(B1); <br />  <br /> To mitigate the problems associated with unnecessary imports, you should regularly review and remove any imports that are not being used. Modern <br /> JavaScript build tools and bundlers often provide features like tree shaking, which eliminates unused code during the bundling process, resulting in a <br /> more optimized bundle size. <br />  <br /> import { B1 } from 'b'; <br />  <br /> console.log(B1); <br />  <br /> Resources <br /> Documentation <br />  <br />    MDN web docs - import  <br />  <br /> Related rules <br />  <br />    S1481 - Unused local variables and functions should be removed  <br /> |CODE_SMELL|MINOR|3
Imports from the same module should be merged|Why is this an issue? <br /> Having the same module imported multiple times can affect code readability and maintainability. It makes hard to identify which modules are being <br /> used. <br />  <br /> import { B1 } from 'b'; <br /> import { B2 } from 'b'; // Noncompliant: there is already an import from module 'b'. <br />  <br /> Instead, one should consolidate the imports from the same module into a single statement. By consolidating all imports from the same module in a <br /> single import statement, the code becomes more concise and easier to read, as there is only one import statement to keep track of. <br /> Additionally, it can make it easier to identify which modules are used in the code. <br />  <br /> import { B1, B2 } from 'b'; <br />  <br /> Resources <br /> Documentation <br />  <br />    MDN web docs - import  <br />    MDN web docs - JavaScript modules  <br /> |CODE_SMELL|MINOR|8
Redundant casts and non-null assertions should be avoided|Why is this an issue? <br /> In TypeScript, casts and non-null assertions are two mechanisms used to inform the TypeScript compiler about the intended types of variables, <br /> expressions, or values in the code. They are used to help the compiler understand the types more accurately and to handle certain situations where <br /> type inference might not be sufficient: <br />  <br />    A type assertion tells the compiler to treat the value as the specified type, even if the compiler’s type inference suggests a different type. <br />    <br />    A non-null assertion is a way to tell the TypeScript compiler explicitly that you are certain that a variable will not be null or <br />   undefined, and you want to access its properties or methods without any null checks.  <br />  <br /> However, a redundant cast occurs when you perform a type assertion that is not needed because the compiler already knows the type based on the <br /> context or explicit type declarations. Similarly, a redundant non-null assertion occurs when you use the non-null assertion operator ! to <br /> assert that a variable is not null or undefined, but the compiler already knows that based on the context. <br /> Both redundant casts and redundant non-null assertions should be avoided in TypeScript code, as they add unnecessary noise, clutter the code, and <br /> lead to confusion. <br />  <br /> function getName(x?: string &#124 Person) { <br />   if (x) { <br />     console.log("Getting name for " + x!); // Noncompliant: 'x' is known to be defined here <br />  <br />     if (typeof x === "string") { <br />       return (x as string); // Noncompliant: 'x' is known to be a string here <br />     } else { <br />       return (x as Person).name; // Noncompliant: 'x' is defined and not a string, thus a 'Person' here <br />     } <br />   } <br />   return "NoName"; <br /> } <br />  <br /> Remove all the redundant casts and non-null assertions based on the contextual typing information, as inferred by the TypeScript compiler. <br />  <br /> function getName(x?: string &#124 Person) { <br />   if (x) { <br />     console.log("Getting name for " + x); <br />  <br />     if (typeof x === "string") { <br />       return x; <br />     } else { <br />       return x.name; <br />     } <br />   } <br />   return "NoName"; <br /> } <br />  <br /> Resources <br /> Documentation <br />  <br />    TypeScript Documentation - Type Assertions <br />    <br />    TypeScript Documentation - Non-null Assertion Operator (Postfix <br />   !)  <br /> |CODE_SMELL|MINOR|1
Optional chaining should be preferred|Why is this an issue? <br /> Optional chaining allows to safely access nested properties or methods of an object without having to check for the existence of each intermediate <br /> property manually. It provides a concise and safe way to access nested properties or methods without having to write complex and error-prone <br /> null/undefined checks. <br /> This rule flags logical operations that can be safely replaced with the ?. optional chaining operator. <br /> How to fix it <br /> Replace with ?. optional chaining the logical expression that checks for null/undefined before accessing the <br /> property of an object, the element of an array, or calling a function. <br /> Code examples <br /> Noncompliant code example <br />  <br /> function foo(obj, arr, fn) { <br />     if (obj &amp;&amp; obj.value) {} <br />     if (arr &amp;&amp; arr[0])    {} <br />     if (fn &amp;&amp; fn(42))     {} <br /> } <br />  <br /> Compliant solution <br />  <br /> function foo(obj, arr, fn) { <br />     if (obj?.value) {} <br />     if (arr?.[0])   {} <br />     if (fn?.(42))   {} <br /> } <br />  <br /> Resources <br /> Documentation <br />  <br />    MDN web docs - Optional chaining <br />    <br /> |CODE_SMELL|MINOR|1
Nullish coalescing should be preferred|Why is this an issue? <br /> The nullish coalescing operator ?? allows providing a default value when dealing with null or undefined. It <br /> only coalesces when the original value is null or undefined. Therefore, it is safer and shorter than relying upon chaining <br /> logical &#124&#124 expressions or testing against null or undefined explicitly. <br /> This rule reports when disjunctions (&#124&#124) and conditionals (?) can be safely replaced with coalescing <br /> (??). <br /> The TSConfig needs to set strictNullChecks to true for the rule to work properly. <br /> How to fix it <br /> Rewrite the logical expression &#124&#124 using ?? on the unchecked operands. <br /> Code examples <br /> Noncompliant code example <br />  <br /> function either(x: number &#124 undefined, y: number) { <br />   return x &#124&#124 y; <br /> } <br />  <br /> Compliant solution <br />  <br /> function either(x: number &#124 undefined, y: number) { <br />   return x ?? y; <br /> } <br />  <br /> Noncompliant code example <br />  <br /> function either(x: number &#124 undefined, y: number) { <br />   return x !== undefined ? x : y; <br /> } <br />  <br /> Compliant solution <br />  <br /> function either(x: number &#124 undefined, y: number) { <br />   return x ?? y; <br /> } <br />  <br /> Resources <br />  <br />    MDN - Nullish coalescing  <br /> |CODE_SMELL|MINOR|1
Anchors should contain accessible content|Why is this an issue? <br /> Anchors, represented by the a tag in HTML, usually contain a hyperlink that users can click to navigate to different sections of a <br /> website or different websites altogether. <br /> However, when anchors do not have content or when the content is hidden from screen readers using the aria-hidden property, it creates <br /> a significant accessibility issue. If an anchor’s content is hidden or non-existent, visually impaired users may not be able to understand the purpose <br /> of the anchor or navigate the website effectively. <br /> This rule checks that anchors do not use the aria-hidden property and have content provided either between the tags or as <br /> aria-label or title property. <br /> How to fix it <br /> Ensure that anchors either have content or an aria-label or title attribute, and they should not use the <br /> aria-hidden property. <br /> Code examples <br /> Noncompliant code example <br />  <br /> &lt;a aria-hidden&gt;link to my site&lt;/a&gt; <br />  <br /> Compliant solution <br />  <br /> &lt;a&gt;link to my site&lt;/a&gt; <br />  <br /> Resources <br /> Documentation <br />  <br />    MDN web docs - &lt;a&gt;: The Anchor element  <br />    MDN web docs - aria-hidden <br />   attribute  <br />  <br /> Standards <br />  <br />    W3C - Link purpose  <br /> |CODE_SMELL|MINOR|1
Non-interactive DOM elements should not have the `tabIndex` property|Navigation using the Tab key should be restricted to elements on the page that users can interact with. <br /> Why is this an issue? <br /> The misuse of the tabIndex attribute can lead to several issues: <br />  <br />    Navigation Confusion: It can confuse users who rely on keyboard navigation, as they might expect to tab through interactive elements like links <br />   and buttons, not static content.  <br />    Accessibility Issues: It can create accessibility problems, as assistive technologies provide their own page navigation mechanisms based on the <br />   HTML of the page. Adding unnecessary tabindexes can disrupt this.  <br />    Increased Tab Ring Size: It unnecessarily increases the size of the page’s tab ring, making navigation more cumbersome.  <br />  <br /> How to fix it <br /> Simply remove the tabIndex attribute or set it to "-1" to fix the issue. <br /> Code examples <br /> Noncompliant code example <br />  <br /> &lt;div tabIndex="0" /&gt; <br />  <br /> Compliant solution <br />  <br /> &lt;div /&gt; <br />  <br /> Resources <br /> Documentation <br />  <br />    MDN web docs - tabindex  <br />    The a11y project - Use the tabindex attribute  <br /> |CODE_SMELL|MINOR|2
Non-interactive DOM elements should not have an interactive handler|Why is this an issue? <br /> Non-interactive DOM elements are HTML elements that are not designed to be interacted with by the user, for instance &lt;div&gt;, <br /> &lt;span&gt;, and &lt;footer&gt;, etc. They are typically used to structure content and do not have built-in interactivity <br /> or keyboard accessibility. <br /> Interactive handlers, on the other hand, are event handlers that respond to user interactions. These include handlers like onClick, <br /> onKeyDown, onMouseUp, and more. When these handlers are added to an HTML element, they make the element respond to the <br /> specified user interaction. <br /> When non-interactive elements have interactive handlers, it can lead to several problems: <br />  <br />    Unexpected behavior: Non-interactive elements are not designed to be interactive, so adding interactive handlers can cause unexpected behavior. <br />   For example, non-interactive elements do not naturally receive keyboard focus, so keyboard users might not be able to activate the handler.  <br />    Confusing for assistive technologies: Assistive technologies might not announce non-interactive elements with interactive handlers correctly. <br />   This can make it difficult for users to understand how to interact with the content.  <br />    Violation of HTML standards: Using interactive handlers on non-interactive elements can be seen as a misuse of HTML, as it goes against the <br />   intended use of these elements.  <br />  <br /> By enforcing that interactive handlers are only used on interactive elements, this rule helps create a more predictable and user-friendly <br /> experience for all users, and ensures that web content adheres to accessibility standards and best practices. <br /> How to fix it <br /> The simplest and most recommended way is to replace the non-interactive elements with interactive ones. If for some reason you can’t replace the <br /> non-interactive element, you can add an interactive role attribute to it and manually manage its keyboard event handlers and focus. <br /> Common interactive roles include button, link, checkbox, menuitem, menuitemcheckbox, <br /> menuitemradio, option, radio, searchbox, switch, and textbox. <br /> Code examples <br /> Noncompliant code example <br />  <br /> &lt;div onClick={() =&gt; {}} /&gt;; // Noncompliant <br />  <br /> Compliant solution <br />  <br /> &lt;div onClick={() =&gt; {}} role="button" /&gt;; <br />  <br /> Resources <br /> Documentation <br />  <br />    WCAG - Name, Role, Value  <br />    MDN web docs - WAI-ARIA Roles  <br /> |CODE_SMELL|MINOR|1
Images should have a non-redundant alternate description|Why is this an issue? <br /> alt attributes, also known as "alt tags" or "alt descriptions," are used to specify alternative text that is rendered when an image <br /> cannot be displayed. They are crucial for improving web accessibility, as they provide a text description of images for users who rely on screen <br /> readers. <br /> Screen readers announce the presence of an &lt;img&gt; element and read its alt attribute aloud to describe the image. If <br /> the alt attribute includes words like "image", "picture", or "photo", it leads to redundancy as the screen reader would repeat "image". <br /> For instance, an alt attribute like "image of a sunrise" would be read as "Image, image of a sunrise", unnecessarily repeating <br /> "image". <br /> Instead, the alt attribute should focus on describing the content of the image, not the fact that it is an image. This makes the <br /> browsing experience more efficient and enjoyable for users of screen readers, as they receive a concise and meaningful description of the image <br /> without unnecessary repetition. <br /> How to fix it <br /> To fix this issue, you should revise the alt attribute of your &lt;img&gt; elements to remove any instances of the words <br /> "image", "picture", or "photo". Instead, provide a concise and accurate description of the image content that adds value for users who cannot see the <br /> image. <br /> Code examples <br /> Noncompliant code example <br />  <br /> function MyImage() { <br />     return &lt;img src="sunrise.jpg" alt="image of a sunrise" /&gt;; // Noncompliant: "Image, image of a sunrise" <br /> } <br />  <br /> Compliant solution <br />  <br /> function MyImage() { <br />     return &lt;img src="sunrise.jpg" alt="a sunrise over a mountain range" /&gt;; <br /> } <br />  <br /> Resources <br /> Documentation <br />  <br />    MDN web docs - img element  <br />    MDN web docs - alt property  <br />    WebAIM - Alternative Text  <br /> |CODE_SMELL|MINOR|1
Elements with an interactive role should support focus|Interactive elements being focusable is vital for website accessibility. It enables users, including those using assistive technologies, to <br /> interact effectively with the website. Without this, some users may be unable to access certain features, leading to a poor user experience and <br /> potential non-compliance with accessibility standards. <br /> Why is this an issue? <br /> Lack of focusability can hinder navigation and interaction with the website, resulting in an exclusionary user experience and possible violation of <br /> accessibility guidelines. <br /> How to fix it <br /> Ensure that all interactive elements on your website can receive focus. This can be achieved by using standard HTML interactive elements, or by <br /> assigning a tabindex attribute of "0" to custom interactive components. <br /> Code examples <br /> Noncompliant code example <br />  <br /> &lt;!-- Element with mouse/keyboard handler has no tabindex --&gt; <br /> &lt;span onclick="submitForm();" role="button"&gt;Submit&lt;/span&gt; <br />  <br /> &lt;!-- Anchor element without href is not focusable --&gt; <br /> &lt;a onclick="showNextPage();" role="button"&gt;Next page&lt;/a&gt; <br />  <br /> Compliant solution <br />  <br /> &lt;!-- Element with mouse handler has tabIndex --&gt; <br /> &lt;span onClick="doSomething();" tabIndex="0" role="button"&gt;Submit&lt;/span&gt; <br />  <br /> &lt;!-- Focusable anchor with mouse handler --&gt; <br /> &lt;a href="javascript:void(0);" onClick="doSomething();"&gt; Next page &lt;/a&gt; <br />  <br /> Resources <br /> Documentation <br />  <br />    W3C - Creating a logical tab order through links, form controls, and objects  <br />    W3C - Fundamental Keyboard Navigation Conventions  <br />    MDN - ARIA: button role - <br />   Accessibility concerns  <br /> |CODE_SMELL|MINOR|13
Label elements should have a text label and an associated control|A &lt;label&gt; element should wrap a control element or have an &lt;htmlFor&gt; attribute referencing a control and text <br /> content. <br /> Why is this an issue? <br /> When a label element lacks a text label or an associated control, it can lead to several issues: <br />  <br />    Poor Accessibility: Screen readers rely on correctly associated labels to describe the function of the form control. If the <br />   label is not properly associated with a control, it can make the form difficult or impossible for visually impaired users to understand or interact <br />   with.  <br />    Confusing User Interface: Labels provide users with clear instructions about what information is required in a form control. <br />   Without a properly associated label, users might not understand what input is expected, leading to confusion and potential misuse of the form.  <br />    Code Maintainability: Properly structured and labeled code is easier to read, understand, and maintain. When labels are not <br />   correctly associated, it can make the code more difficult to navigate and debug, especially for new developers or those unfamiliar with the <br />   codebase.  <br />  <br /> Control elements are: * &lt;input&gt; * &lt;meter&gt; * &lt;output&gt; * &lt;progress&gt; * <br /> &lt;select&gt; * &lt;textarea&gt; <br /> Exceptions <br /> Custom components may contain control elements, therefore label elements containing custom elements do not raise issues. <br /> How to fix it <br /> If you have a pair of control and &lt;label&gt; elements, make sure that the &lt;label&gt; wraps the control element. If <br /> you lack a control element, add one. <br /> It is strongly recommended to avoid using generated ids since they must be deterministic. <br /> Code examples <br /> Noncompliant code example <br />  <br /> &lt;input type="text" /&gt; <br /> &lt;label&gt;Favorite food&lt;/label&gt; <br />  <br /> Compliant solution <br />  <br /> &lt;label&gt; <br />   &lt;input type="text" /&gt; <br />   Favorite food <br /> &lt;/label&gt; <br />  <br /> Noncompliant code example <br />  <br /> &lt;label&gt;Favorite food&lt;/label&gt; <br />  <br /> Compliant solution <br />  <br /> &lt;label&gt; <br />   &lt;MyCustomInput /&gt; <br />   Favorite food <br /> &lt;/label&gt; <br />  <br /> Resources <br /> Documentation <br />  <br />    MDN web docs - The Label element  <br />    W3C - Info and Relationships  <br />    W3C - Labels or Instructions  <br /> |CODE_SMELL|MINOR|1
Django secret keys should not be disclosed|Secret leaks often occur when a sensitive piece of authentication data is stored with the source code of an application. Considering the source <br /> code is intended to be deployed across multiple assets, including source code repositories or application hosting servers, the secrets might get <br /> exposed to an unintended audience. <br /> Why is this an issue? <br /> In most cases, trust boundaries are violated when a secret is exposed in a source code repository or an uncontrolled deployment environment. <br /> Unintended people who don’t need to know the secret might get access to it. They might then be able to use it to gain unwanted access to associated <br /> services or resources. <br /> The trust issue can be more or less severe depending on the people’s role and entitlement. <br /> What is the potential impact? <br /> If a Django secret key leaks to an unintended audience, it can have serious security implications for the corresponding application. The secret key <br /> is used to sign cookies and other sensitive data so that an attacker could potentially use it to perform malicious actions. <br /> For example, an attacker could use the secret key to create their own cookies that appear to be legitimate, allowing them to bypass authentication <br /> and gain access to sensitive data or functionality. <br /> In the worst-case scenario, an attacker could be able to execute arbitrary code on the application and take over its hosting server. <br /> How to fix it <br /> Revoke the secret <br /> Revoke any leaked secrets and remove them from the application source code. <br /> Before revoking the secret, ensure that no other applications or processes are using it. Other usages of the secret will also be impacted when the <br /> secret is revoked. <br /> In Django, changing the secret value is sufficient to invalidate any data that it protected. It is important to not add the revoked secret to the <br /> SECRET_KEY_FALLBACKS list. Doing so would not prevent previously protected data from being used. <br /> Use a secret vault <br /> A secret vault should be used to generate and store the new secret. This will ensure the secret’s security and prevent any further unexpected <br /> disclosure. <br /> Depending on the development platform and the leaked secret type, multiple solutions are currently available. <br /> Code examples <br /> Noncompliant code example <br />  <br /> SECRET_KEY = 'r&amp;lvybzry1*k+qq)=x-!=0yd5l5#1gxzk!82@ru25*ntos3_9^' <br />  <br /> Compliant solution <br />  <br /> import os <br />  <br /> SECRET_KEY = os.environ["SECRET_KEY"] <br />  <br /> Resources <br /> Standards <br />  <br />    OWASP - Top 10 2021 Category A7 - Identification and <br />   Authentication Failures  <br />    OWASP - Top 10 2017 Category A3 - Sensitive Data <br />   Exposure  <br />    CWE - CWE-798 - Use of Hard-coded Credentials  <br />    CWE - CWE-259 - Use of Hard-coded Password  <br />    STIG Viewer - Application Security and <br />   Development: V-222642 - The application must not contain embedded authentication data.  <br />  <br /> Documentation <br />  <br />    Django documentation - Settings - SECRET_KEY  <br /> |VULNERABILITY|BLOCKER|1


## Security Hotspots

### Security hotspots count by category and priority

Category / Priority|LOW|MEDIUM|HIGH
---|---|---|---
LDAP Injection|0|0|0
Object Injection|0|0|0
Server-Side Request Forgery (SSRF)|0|0|0
XML External Entity (XXE)|0|0|0
Insecure Configuration|1|0|0
XPath Injection|0|0|0
Authentication|0|0|0
Weak Cryptography|0|1|0
Denial of Service (DoS)|0|0|0
Log Injection|0|0|0
Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF)|0|0|0
Open Redirect|0|0|0
Permission|0|0|0
SQL Injection|0|0|0
Encryption of Sensitive Data|0|0|0
Traceability|0|0|0
Buffer Overflow|0|0|0
File Manipulation|0|0|0
Code Injection (RCE)|0|0|0
Cross-Site Scripting (XSS)|0|0|0
Command Injection|0|0|0
Path Traversal Injection|0|0|0
HTTP Response Splitting|0|0|0
Others|0|0|0


### Security hotspots

Category|Name|Priority|Severity|Count
---|---|---|---|---
Insecure Configuration|Delivering code in production with debug features activated is security-sensitive|LOW|MINOR|1
Weak Cryptography|Using pseudorandom number generators (PRNGs) is security-sensitive|MEDIUM|CRITICAL|1

